# fortunes

Custom fortune files (that don't exist elsewhere) if you want those, clone those.


## Usage

These fortunes are managed by a simple makefile, run `make usage` for a detailed
description of the available options:

```sh
make usage
```

>     Usage: make [DESTINATION=<fortune directory>] [usage | [[clean] [all | offensive | unoffensive] [install | uninstall]]]
>     Targets:
>             usage:
>                     Show this message.
>             clean:
>                     Clean up all locally generated files, mainly the various .dat
>                     files.
>             all:
>                     Generate the .dat files for all configured fortunes, including
>                     offensive fortunes.
>             offensive:
>                     Generate the .dat files for ONLY the (potentially) offensive
>                     fortunes.
>             unoffensive:
>                     Generate the .dat files for ONLY the safe, unoffensive
>                     fortunes.
>             install:
>                     Install all currently generated .dat files and their
>                     respective fortunes. Note: this requires some .dat files to
>                     have been generated by a previously specified generation
>                     target, one of [all | offensive | unoffensive].
>             uninstall:
>                     Uninstall all currently installed .dat files and their
>                     respective fortunes. Note: this may remove fortunes installed
>                     by others projects or packages if there are name collisions.

### Building

To clean all build artefacts, run `make clean`, to generate all the fortunes,
regardless of offensive content, run `make all`. Otherwise, `offensive` and
`unoffensive` may be built separately.

```sh
make clean       # Clears all .dat files
make unoffensive # Builds .dat files for unoffensive fortunes
make offensive   # Builds .dat files for offensive fortunes
make clean       # Clears all previous .dat files
make all         # Rebuild all .dat files from scratch.
```

### Installation

Installation is also managed by the Makefile, via the `install` and
`uninstall` targets. Optionally, to control the output directory of the
resulting files, the `DESTINATION` directory may be set to any valid
directory.

```sh
make clean all
sudo make DESTINATION=/usr/local/fortunes install
```
